README.md, before:

# GSoC Bionode 2017

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17](https://badges.gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17.svg)](https://gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


This is a repository for all kind of code tests, reports and all kind of useful 
documentation that I found useful for my GSoC project 2017.

## Timeline

- [x] Bionode-watermill testing & mozzila sprint ([30 May to 7 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_1.md))
- [x] Bionode-watermill tutorial ([7 June to 14 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_2.md))
- [x] Basic Manifest files ([15 June to 22 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_3.md))
- [x] DAG visualization ([23 June to 28 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_4.md))
- [x] Improve DAG visualization as described 
[here (29 June to 05 July)](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_5.md#todo).
    - [x] Real-time graph visualization.
    - [x] Manifest file improvement (this might be solved with DAG 
    visualization)
- [ ] Start studying and documenting the graph generation of orchestrators. ***
- [ ] Folder naming according to the definition of tasks? (needs discussion)
- [ ] Incremental mode (useful for debugging).
- [ ] Benchmark bionode-watermill comparison ([check this issue](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/issues/3)).
- [ ] Implement streams.

## Ideas

* Optional tasks (Comment lines, pass an option to task itself and still be 
able to import the task and use it, multiple pipelines)
* Object pipeline definition (try to change the pipeline from a promise to an
 object.. and ability to import the pipeline into another pipeline, know dag 
 shape ahead of running).
* CWL
* use cases for streaming tasks (a | b | c), saving stodut to files, etc
* Human input in certain tasks
* Improve graph visualization to see in real-time which files already run and
 where it is (marking it as green/red for instance whether or not task is done)
* Ad hoc multi (input) dataset implementation --> each one runs in its own 
dag (first implementation).

Commit message:

Made updates to the description of week 1 and main readme to include PR and commits made.

README.md, after:

# GSoC Bionode 2017

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17](https://badges.gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17.svg)](https://gitter.im/bionode/GSoC17?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

This repository is the detailed description of the of the work performed 
during my GSoC17 in bionode-watermill.
 
Here you may find all kind of code tests, reports and useful 
documentation that I found useful for my GSoC project 2017.

## Progress tracking

- [x] Bionode-watermill testing & mozzila sprint ([30 May to 7 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_1.md))
- [x] Bionode-watermill tutorial ([7 June to 14 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_2.md))
- [x] Basic Manifest files ([15 June to 22 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_3.md))
- [x] DAG visualization ([23 June to 28 June](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_4.md))
- [x] Improve DAG visualization as described 
[here (29 June to 05 July)](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_5.md#todo).
    - [x] Real-time graph visualization.
    - [x] Manifest file improvement (this might be solved with DAG 
    visualization)
- [x] Start studying and documenting the graph generation of orchestrators. ([21 July to 26 July](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_8.md#week-8-21-july-to-26-july)
and [27 July yo 2 August](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_9.md))
- [ ] Folder naming according to the definition of tasks? (needs discussion)
- [ ] Incremental mode (useful for debugging).
- [ ] Benchmark bionode-watermill comparison ([check this issue](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/issues/3)).
- [ ] Implement streams.

## Challenges

* [x] Optional tasks (Comment lines, pass an option to task itself and still be 
able to import the task and use it, multiple pipelines). Check [13 July to 20 
July](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_7.md#optional-tasks).
* [ ] Object pipeline definition (try to change the pipeline from a promise 
to an
 object.. and ability to import the pipeline into another pipeline, know dag 
 shape ahead of running). Check [13 July to 20 
July](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_7.md#execute-pipelines-inside-another-pipeline-as-a-task) and 
[21 July to 26 July](https://github.com/bionode/GSoC17/blob/master/Journal/Week_8.md#execute-pipelines-inside-another-pipeline-as-a-task-cont).
* CWL
* use cases for streaming tasks (a | b | c), saving stdout to files, etc
* Human input in certain tasks
* Improve graph visualization to see in real-time which files already run and
 where it is (marking it as green/red for instance whether or not task is done)
* Ad hoc multi (input) dataset implementation --> each one runs in its own 
dag (first implementation).

## TODO
