# Week 3 (15 June to 21 June)

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Summary_log.txt](#summary-log-txt)
    - [Linking folders and tasks](#linking-folders-and-tasks)
    - [I/O and params](#i-o-and-params)
- [What can be improved?](#what-can-be-improved)

## Summary

This week I started to document everything that I have done until now, 
including this week.

But besides that, the main goal for this week is to generate an output file 
that summarizes the task outputs (associating folder names, task names, 
inputs and outputs, and params parsed to each task).

## Summary_log.txt

### Linking folders and tasks

First of all, it urged to create a way to match tasks with the folders were 
its outputs were generated by bionode-watermill. Therefore, first I used the 
`miniUid` variable of `lib/sagas/lifecycle.js` which corresponded to the 
first 8 letter of the uid generated by the task and matches the folders 
created within data. However, this fails for tasks that use bionode-ncbi that
 for some reason do not output to `./data` but instead output to `./`. So, to
  circumvent this, I used the full path for the directory of the outputs, 
  available in the object `originalTask`, particularly in `originalTask.dir`.
   This way not only we get a more informative path (the full path to output 
   directory of the task). This way, bionode-ncbi related tasks do not give a
    wrong output directory.
    
### I/O and params

Tasks also have associated other parameters that can be useful for the user 
to associate with the output folders and the tasks itself. For instance, 
which inputs were given? What is the expected pattern for the output? Are 
there any other parameters that were passed to the task?

This is currently controlled by `input`, `output` and `params`. And in fact 
this is also available in `originalTask`. However, all these parameters can 
be **strings** or **objects** so in order to avoid errors or strange 
behaviors in logging this, this variables had to be _stringified_ before 
adding to file. This way rendering something like this:

```javascript
params: {"db":"sra","accession":"ERR045788"}
```
or
```javascript
params: "ERR045788"
```

For now the output should look like the following example:

```javascript
{ folder_name: "/home/tiago/bin/bionode-watermill-tiagofilipe12/bionode-watermill/examples/pipelines/two-mappers/data/9fc99c0", 
  task_name: "Download reference genome for Streptococcus pneumoniae", 
  input: null, 
  output: "*_genomic.fna.gz", 
  params: {"url":"http://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genomes/all/GCF/000/007/045/GCF_000007045.1_ASM704v1/GCF_000007045.1_ASM704v1_genomic.fna.gz"} }
{ folder_name: "/home/tiago/bin/bionode-watermill-tiagofilipe12/bionode-watermill/examples/pipelines/two-mappers", 
  task_name: "Download SRA ERR045788", 
  input: null, 
  output: "**/*.sra", 
  params: {"db":"sra","accession":"ERR045788"} }
{ folder_name: "/home/tiago/bin/bionode-watermill-tiagofilipe12/bionode-watermill/examples/pipelines/two-mappers/data/ef7ee47", 
  task_name: "fastq-dump **/*.sra", 
  input: "**/*.sra", 
  output: ["*_1.fastq.gz","*_2.fastq.gz"], 
  params: {} }
```
    
  
## What can be improved?

- [ ] We need to check bionode-ncbi behavior within bionode-watermill since its 
outputs are being generated outside `./data`, the expected main output 
directory.
